---
id: 671
title: The Quiet
date: 2008-12-28T22:17:17+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
layout: post
guid: http://solitude.vkps.co.uk/?p=671
permalink: /Archives/2008/12/28/the-quiet/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - Meta
  - Personal
---
I hate seeing those &#8220;Sorry, I haven&#8217;t been posting much&#8221; posts, so it&#8217;s with more than a little trepidation that I write one myself to try and explain my two and a half month absence. (I am, in truth, adding this entirely for my own benefit years down the line.) The following things have happened:

  * I left my job at the BigCo I&#8217;ve been working for since I graduated from university (3+ years of service). There wasn&#8217;t any big, deep disagreement, I just felt it was time to try something different and take on a different kind of challenge. I&#8217;d certainly go back at some point in the future, if that&#8217;s where my path was headed.
  * Consequently, I&#8217;ve started working for a pretty SmallCo. So far it seems pretty excellent, and is a remarkably different kind of pace. The amount of bureaucracy has decreased dramatically, but the level of support for peripheral items has also decreased. All in all, it seems like it&#8217;s a good experience and one I should be taking at this point in my life.
  * I&#8217;ve moved flat _again_. Yes, this is my 4th flat in 3 years, but hopefully the last for a good little while. I&#8217;ve finally left the city centre of Glasgow behind, and am slowly getting acquainted with the south side (specifically, Mount Florida).
  * As I mentioned on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/garyfleming), I was briefly admitted to hospital after my appendix decided it wanted a separation. It was a tough break-up but a few weeks later, I think I&#8217;m over it.
  * Aside from that, I&#8217;ve been catching up on various games. My Guitar Hero skills are coming along nicely, and Fable II was quite a nice diversion. Fallout 3 is just warming up now.

I&#8217;d like to say that it won&#8217;t happen again, but we all know it will. I do, however, have a reasonably large selection of ideas that I want to write about in the near future so hopefully it&#8217;ll be a little less barren here. Look out for the remainder of 2008&#8217;s Film Fights, and the Film Fight Finale in the next few days.