---
id: 640
title: 'Film Fight: May 2008'
date: 2008-07-06T16:10:45+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
layout: post
guid: http://solitude.vkps.co.uk/?p=640
permalink: /Archives/2008/07/06/film-fight-may-2008/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - Film
  - Film Fight
---
Another month, another 4 films&#8230;

**Iron Man** is the first film in Marvel&#8217;s attempt to reboot their film universe, after some fairly awful entries. The failings of this film are the same for most Hollywood action films: they&#8217;re made for what is expected to be the lowest common denominator (that great, traditional cinema has a more universal appeal is a debate for another post, but think of something like Goodfellas). The plot is fairly moronic, being nothing more than an attempt to tell the origin story quickly and get onto a series of CGI action sequences and cameos (for other Marvel characters). Big, loud, and fast. As the genre goes, it&#8217;s not a terrible entry: Robert Downey Jr. is an inspired choice, even if Tony Stark has gone from obsessive alcoholic genius, the prototypical flawed hero, to brash-but-brilliant, crowd-pleasing asshole. Where it lacks good storytelling, it makes some inroads with the action. Watchable.

The quiet, British indie film, **Cashback**, has a decent premise: an art student obsesses over the female form (while working in a supermarket), often stopping time to fully indulge his compulsion. It&#8217;s left purposefully opaque as to the extent and reality of this talent, flipping back and forth between assuming it&#8217;s real or just his imagination. That&#8217;s fine though: the frozen time scenes are merely a mechanism for exploring the character, and on that level the film is a success. Cashback suffers from being stretched too thin (perhaps as a result of being an expanded version of a short film) as some of the other characters and the plot lines are shoe-horned in or lack depth, notably his best friend. Still, it&#8217;s a decent enough film when it focusses on it&#8217;s stronger parts.

Here&#8217;s a concept: a horror film where it is abundantly clear that the nemesis, whether ghost, monster or zombie, has the main characters in a place where it can&#8217;t be stopped, hurt or, for the most part, seen. **Outpost** is that movie. You may think that this would make for quite a dramatic, fraught, survival piece but the opposite is true: it lacks tension or scares, and sadly lacks a coherent plot. For some reason, the Nazi ghosts are murdering a group of soldiers who stumble upon an abandoned bunker, making for some of the most conveniently capricious baddies you&#8217;re likely to see. They can kill everyone at any time, but stick with one at a time kills until the plot calls for more. There are some decent elements (the creepy pale man) but they&#8217;re never utilised as fully as they could be. Relatively weak.

Finally, the much awaited **Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull** shows that even the relatively sacred Indiana Jones franchise is capable of producing an absolute stinker. There is little to like about this film. The story is nonsensical, fan-pleasing hookum in the worst sense. It reads like fan fiction. You expect the author&#8217;s favourite band to turn up and high-five Shia LaBeouf (who is awful in this), it&#8217;s honestly that bad. The fun, family adventures (occult themes not withstanding) have been replaced by farce. The impeccably solid stunt-work has been replaced by piss weak CGI and ludicrous ideas. The evil ants climb up each other like a cartoon? Shia LeBeouf becomes Tarzan? _That_ accent was supposed to be acting? Tragically bad, and not so tragic that it&#8217;s funny either.

The winner for May 2008 is **Cashback**. It wouldn&#8217;t have won in many other months, but it&#8217;s core is a good enough film to warrant a watch.