---
id: 251
title: Time
date: 2003-03-31T17:15:40+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
excerpt: Time is quite important to us all...
layout: post
guid: tag:solitude.vkps.co.uk,2003:1,20030331171540
permalink: /Archives/2003/03/31/Time/
---
Time is quite important to us all and something I&#8217;ve been thinking about a bit recently. Not in any really deep way, mind.

On Friday, my watch stopped. This, to me, is devastating. I check my watch constantly to make sure I&#8217;ve got enough time to do whatever I want to before having to go do something else (I&#8217;m watching the computer clock now to make sure I&#8217;ve got enough time to write this before going out).

Now being a Friday meant that I couldn&#8217;t get a new battery fitted until today (Monday). So I thought, &#8220;Hmm&#8230; wear one of your other watches&#8221;. What did I find? They&#8217;re _all_ broken. I let them cut out one after another, moving onto the next without replacing the last. Stupid mistake! So, I had to endure a weekend of not knowing exactly what time it is. This bothers me.

Only yesterday, British Summer Time started, often shortened to <acronym title="British Summer Time">BST</acronym>. Now, that won&#8217;t mean much to most people, but losing an hour in bed means a lot to me, especially since I&#8217;ve been sleeping quite erratically recently. Why can&#8217;t we just keep getting an extra hour in bed? After 12 years of moving forward _twice_ a year (instead of forward once and back once), things would end up working out.

Shit, why not move forward twice a month and we&#8217;d get the whole cycle sorted inside a year and get plenty of extra time in bed? Best plan of all time, if you ask me.

Anyway, the whole situation has worked out: I&#8217;ve adjusted to the hour stolen from me (still looking forward to getting it back in October), and two of my watches are now working.