---
id: 526
title: Zen Focus
date: 2003-01-23T19:34:10+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
excerpt: A short story about focus.
layout: post
guid: tag:solitude.vkps.co.uk,2003:1,20030123193410
permalink: /Archives/2003/01/23/ZenFocus/
---
I was sitting, blankly enough. No ideas and little real understanding of the subject matter. I could see what to do on a very superficial level, but lacked the language to consolidate it into something usable; something more workable.

The thing is I had left it a little late. I only really began working on it the day before, and even then it was a very vague look to try and get the outline into my head; to start _thinking about_ thinking about it.

A day later, I&#8217;m sat working on it. The clock eats away at the deadline, and fear is all around. Not just from me. The others are rushing around: either refusing to accept that failure is inevitable or calmy banging their heads off the nearest wall.

Except for that one guy. You know the one: he started weeks ago. He was done days before anyone else bothered to look at what was required. He&#8217;s only there to look down his nose at everyone else, interspersed with small bouts of &#8220;This is so easy&#8221;. He&#8217;s not impressing anyone though.

And then BAM! It takes a few seconds for it to hit in all it&#8217;s glory, but you start working without really knowing why, what or how you&#8217;re doing it. Everything glues together for just a few minutes, creative dams in your mind burst and flow into the work. **THIS WILL WORK!**.

As you finish, you kick out of your Zen-like focus and worry. Will it work? Of course. Nothing is quite like the feeling of being &#8220;in the zone&#8221;, as some put it.

Yes, it works. And yes, it is accepted. And yes, you get the credit you deserve. But no, the smart-arse who started first doesn&#8217;t combust spontaneously.

You&#8217;re probably wondering what I&#8217;m talking about. While it was actually a program I had to write that I was talking about, that does not matter. A moment of pure focus and creativity is all it takes to go from a blank slate to a finished and polished fully-working creation.

So remember the next time you&#8217;re on a tight deadline: clear your mind and just work. You&#8217;ll thank me for it.