---
id: 15835
title: 'Film Fight 2013: May'
date: 2013-06-10T20:56:35+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
layout: post
guid: http://solitude.vkps.co.uk/?p=15835
permalink: /Archives/2013/06/10/film-fight-2013-may/
categories:
  - Films
---
The first batch of big summer blockbusters have arrived, alongside some more thoughtful films, making for five films in today&#8217;s Film Fight for May.

First up, **Iron Man 3** is the prototypical big-budget, CG-heavy, plot-light blockbuster we&#8217;ve come to expect from much of Marvel&#8217;s output (Avengers aside). This movie, however, gets ideas above its station, trying to instill more human qualities in its protagonist by giving him a young boy as a sidekick for a reasonable portion of the movie. It fails badly, as the kid is thoroughly unlikeable, Stark&#8217;s interactions with him (and many other ordinary people) are creaking and awkward, and he all but gets dropped out of the last act, making his set-up pointless. There are decent set-up pieces about The Mandarin, but the mid-film reveal is silly and he is replaced by generic baddies fighting lifeless CG battles. You&#8217;ll stop caring about anyone by the half-way mark, if you cared at all. The worst entry in the Marvel Film universe since Hulk. (See [my Iron Man 3 Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/331859813006991361)).

A better big budget film wasn&#8217;t far away, in the form of **Star Trek: Into Darkness**. It&#8217;s light-hearted, enjoyable, nonsense; the plotholes are many and consistency is low, but it&#8217;s fast and it&#8217;s fun. By the time your brain catches up, you&#8217;ll be on your way home. It&#8217;s weakest point is the relationship between Kirk and Spock. It&#8217;s sold as a strong bond, but it&#8217;s difficult to buy that after they&#8217;ve had so little screen time together, much of which they&#8217;ve spent despising each other. Ignore that, and you&#8217;ve got a decent film, but certainly not a classic. (See [my Star Trek: Into Darkness Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/333287296348590081)).

Matthew McConaughey continues a recent run of excellent performances (Lincoln Lawyer, Killer Joe, The Paperboy) in **Mud**, a movie about two young boys finding a man hiding in a swamp, and the few days that follow. While the pacing is as mired as the setting, you couldn&#8217;t ask for a better cast of character actors. They do their best to keep things moving forward, but it&#8217;s slow going. It&#8217;s worth sticking with it though. (See [my Mud Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/334430825250709504)).

**Upstream Color** is Shane Carruth&#8217;s first movie since his debut, the excellent Primer. Where that film was difficult because of the complexities of time travel being depicted as naturalistically as possible, Upstream Color is a challenge for many other reasons. It&#8217;s a beautiful mess of fast edits, dreamy music, half told moments, pieces that don&#8217;t quite fit and motivations that are far from apparent (Carruth himself has said he&#8217;s bothered by the motives of the voyeuristic sound recorder). I won&#8217;t begin to describe what this film is about. It&#8217;s involved, but worthy of the time it&#8217;ll take you to truly consider it. A classic. (See [my Upstream Color Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/336148916296892418)).

Finally, **Dragon** is a very interesting idea: it plays out as a Chinese period take on Cronenberg&#8217;s A History of Violence, swapping out the mafia for martial arts. It should&#8217;ve been good, but too much of the film is played for laughs; silly and slapstick, where it would have benefitted from being more sombre and serious. A wasted opportunity. (see [my Dragon Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/338681997843132416)).

The winner for May is **Upstream Color**, for its unique vision.

Note: Upstream Color won&#8217;t appear in UK cinemas until later this year. You can wait until then, or get a US copy imported (I got a region-free copy).