---
id: 16131
title: 'Film Fight 2015: May'
date: 2015-08-03T19:29:41+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
layout: post
guid: http://solitude.vkps.co.uk/?p=16131
permalink: /Archives/2015/08/03/film-fight-2015-may/
categories:
  - Films
---
For May, Film Fight has 4 films&#8230;

First up, **Child 44** is a slow-paced thriller, starring Tom Hardy as a Russian officer trying to link together the disappearances of several children. It takes its time to cover the ground it needs to, building up slowly over the 2 hour or so runtime, without becoming a slog. While some of the accents are weak and the action sequences are ill-advised (but infrequent), it manages to do what it needs to do fairly well. Solid. (See [my Child 44 Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/596666077892993024)).

Samuel L. Jackson seems like he&#8217;s open to do pretty much any film that seems like it&#8217;ll be fun, and **Big Game** is no exception. It&#8217;s clearly on a tiny budget given its action aspirations, but does surprisingly well within its constraints. Following the dual plots of a boy sent into the Finnish wilderness to become a man and the attempted assassination of the US president, that quickly come together, it starts silly and remains generally fun. It&#8217;s definitely not a classic, but is an entertaining enough way to pass an afternoon. (See [my Big Game Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/599261912505909248)).

We&#8217;ve waited a long time for another in the series, so it&#8217;s good to see that **Mad Max: Fury Road** does not disappoint. This is a film that manages to get a surprising amount of world-building and characterisation through the deluge of action; with Charlize Theron&#8217;s Imperator Furiosa a clear stand-out. The main event, however, is the relentlessly paced and breath-taking action. Tere are several lengthy sequences of chases that are always crystal clear, and constantly moving. While the handful of quiet scenes are a welcome relief, they are weaker than the rest of the film. An excellent action movie that is as technically brilliant as it is fun to watch. (See [my Mad Max: Fury Road Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/600054142862827521)).

Finally, **Tomorrowland** is probably the most well-meaning film you&#8217;ll see for a long time; focussing on a central message of trying your best to improve the world. It&#8217;s genuinely nice to see such a hopeful message given in a fun way. Sadly, the film doesn&#8217;t quite get to where it is trying to reach. It&#8217;s inoffensive, but fairly bland. None of the action sequences really grab you, the plot is a little flimsy, and it does get more than a little heavy-handed when delivering its core message. All in, it&#8217;s pleasant but forgettable. (See [my Tomorrowland Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/605088264626798592)).

The winner for May is **Mad Max: Fury Road**. Great action is rarely done with this level of clarity.