---
title: "Film Fight 2017: May"
date: 2017-12-27T09:00:00+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
layout: post
permalink: /:year/:month/:title/
categories:
  - Films
---

It's months like this, with 9 films, that have made me reticent to tackle Film Fight of late. That said, let's get going!

First up, **In The Shadow Of Iris** has a few moments that fall a bit flat, but for the most part is a solid thriller with some decent twists. At the heart is the mystery of a woman who has been kidnapped, and her husband who seems to be up to something. I don't want to say too much about it, but it's a well-made mystery. Worth seeing. (See [my In The Shadow Of Iris Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/859516985838882817))

Another few months, another Marvel film. **Guardians Of The Galaxy, Vol. 2** has the humour of the original but goes back to some beats a little too often. It's fun enough, but a little long. Sadly, the middle of this film is absolutely laden with dull exposition setting up some backstory. It's fine, but not one of the best Marvel films, nor one of the worst. (See [my Guardians Of The Galaxy, Vol. 2 Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/861562477150130176))

From it's opening, with a man stating to camera that he will be the killer, **Handsome** sets itself up as a very different murder mystery. Jeff Garlin does a great job both behind the camera and in front of it, as a detective called in to solve a bizarre murder. It's funny, and has enough good moments to make it worth seeing. (See [my Handsome Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/861563128949215232))

The premise of **Mindhorn** is that a washed-up action star is called in to help catch an obsessed murderer on the Isle of Man. It's at its best when it leans into absurdity, and its worst when it tries to find earnest moments. Constrained by run time and, presumably, budget but not the worst way to spend 90 minutes. Okay. (See [my Mindhorn Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/863334047736528900))

**Alien: Covenant** could've been a much better film. Tying elements of Prometheus to the themes of the original Alien film works conceptually for me, but is far too heavy-handed in execution. It works best as light horror, and serves as an okay sequel. The CG on the alien is atrocious and gets notably worse every time it appears. Some good moments, particularly nearer the start, but devolves into generic action. (See [my Alien: Covenant Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/865897155181064193))

Alcoholism is a serious subject, on which **Colossal** is a very different take. Mixing Godzilla-style monster action with a story about a woman whose life is falling apart, this is an uncannily smart and unusual film. Both leads (Anne Hathaway, Jason Sudeikis) turn in excellent performances, as the plot shifts around them. I'm avoiding most of the details here, because it's worth seeing this fresh. An absolute must-see. (See [my Colossal Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/867084714590564353))

**Small Crimes** is an indie crime film. It's decent enough but stays in fairly well-trodden territory. The anti-hero, corrupt cops etc. There's not much you haven't seen before but at least it's cohesive. Okay. (See [my Small Crimes Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/869606648108769280))

**Get Me Roger Stone** is a look into the titular trickster for various Republican campaigns. He's a man who is not afraid to fight dirty, so what we see is a bizarre circus show. The documentary itself seems relatively fair and even-handed. Good. (See [my Get Me Roger Stone Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/869606951298244610))

When **War Machine** starts with some awful and fairly lengthly narration, I was expecting it to be bad. Thankfully, it settles down quite quickly into a slightly incohesive film about Afghanistan. It tries to be deadly serious AND satirical, and that doesn't quite gel. Brad Pitt is decent enough as the lead, but not much else stands out. (See [my War Machine Twitter review](https://twitter.com/garyfleming/status/869607922812293121))

The winner for May is **Colossal**; a fantastic and fantastical look at some fairly heavy subjects.
