---
id: 231
title: This Is 23
date: 2006-10-24T00:38:21+00:00
author: Gary Fleming
excerpt: The obligatory birthday post.
layout: post
guid: tag:solitude.vkps.co.uk,2003:1,20061024003821
permalink: /Archives/2006/10/24/ThisIs23/
---
Another year down. 23. I&#8217;m at that fun stage in life where you&#8217;re sure you&#8217;re still young but end up in a whole bunch of situations where you feel old. It doesn&#8217;t help the ego, but I imagine it will only get more and more acute so I should enjoy my pseudo youth as best as I can.

It&#8217;s been a fast year. This time last year, I was about 3 months into my job with the BigCo and still a little out of my depth. Now, I&#8217;m completely comfortable with my job and skills: they keep throwing me stuff out of my comfort zone, and I figure it out pretty quickly. Need a massively scalable web application with ridiculously low latency? I can do that. Want to compare any number of Solaris boxes from Sun for specific infrastructures? I can do that too. I couldn&#8217;t say that a year ago.

I&#8217;ve also moved into a flat that I rather like. City centre living is definitely for me, right now. I can see myself wanting to live further into the countryside later in life but, right now, in the middle of everything is where I am enjoying myself. Two minutes from all the things I want to do.

I&#8217;ve continued all that fun learning about the world and people, etc, but feel less inclined to talk about it. I know I&#8217;m better, and that&#8217;s all I need to say.

Incidentally, by pure chance, I had the same song stuck in my head from [my birthday post last year](/Archives/2005/10/24/AnotherYearGone). So, older, better, but still the same.